# ES4PS Setup Wizard

This is a setup wizard to setup the Easy Samba for Public Services (ES4PS)
containers composition. This wizard will guide the user through the process
of setting up needed parameters for the ES4PS containers to work properly
and get a zip file with the configured composition to run the ES4PS platform.

## How to run the setup wizard

To run the setup wizard, you should simply access the following link:

[ES4PS Setup Wizard](https://diegoascanio.github.io/es4ps-setup-wizard/)

Then you should fill the required fields. Some fields present a tooltip
that will help you to understand its purpose and fill its value.

After filling all required fields, a generate containers composiion button
will be enabled. Click on it to generate the zip file with the configured
composition.

After the zip file is generated, a link will be shown to download the file.
Proceed to download it and extract the zip file to get the necessary files
to run the ES4PS.

## How to run the ES4PS platform

### Requirements

To run the ES4PS platform, you should have docker and docker-compose installed. Follow the [docker instructions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)  appropriated to your distro to install docker engine and [these instructions](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/linux/) to install docker-compose.

If you are using a windows or mac os system, it is strongly recommended to use the [docker desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) to install both docker engine and docker-compose, as well as GUI tools that can help you to manage this containers composition for ES4PS or any other containers that you might want to run.

### Running the ES4PS platform in a linux distro

Go to the folder where you extracted the zip file generated by the setup wizard and run the following commands:

```bash
bash build.sh # This will build the containers
bash start.sh # This will start the containers
```

## ES4PS-setup-wizard Useful Information

This project is a pure react application that uses the `create-react-app`
boilerplate to create a setup wizard for the ES4PS project. React was chosen
as the main technology for this wizard because this wizard will be only
a single page application with no need for routing, server side rendering
or any other kind of feature that would require a specialized framework
for doing so.

All components are defined in the `es4ps-setup-wizard/src/components` folder. 
As the author could not load external functions in the components who are not
in the same folder, there are also some javascript functions who are not 
components but are needed by the components and they are stored in the 
`components` folder as well.

These are:

- `./components/genDotEnvFile.js`
- `./components/validators.js`

All the components and functions are properly commented to help anyone 
who wants to contribute to the project and/or this setup wizard tool.

Other thing to note is that the `utils` folder contains functions — that are 
not currently used in this release — to generate self signed certificates.
These functions would be used if the **select mode for chosing to upload or
generate self-signed certificates** component was implemented.
These codes didn't work as expected and it was decided — to ensure the first
MVP — to impose self-signed certificate generation in the containers that
would need certificates to encrypt its communications.
Anyways, the `utils` codes are there as a reference for future implementations.
